# AMWA IS-11 NMOS Sink Metedata Proccessing Specification: Overview \[Work In Progress\]

{:.no_toc}

- A markdown unordered list which will be replaced with the ToC, excluding the "Contents header" from above
{:toc}

<!-- _(c) AMWA 2017, CC Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-ND 4.0)_  -->

## Introduction

AMWA IS-11 specifies how how Sources, Flows and Senders within an NMOS compatible system can be reconfigured and EDIDs of Sinks associated with Receivers can be obtained.

The Specification includes:

- RAML and JSON Schema definitions, with supporting JSON examples
- This documentation set, which provides:
  - An overview of the API and how it is used.
  - Normative requirements in addition to those included in the RAML and JSON schemas specifying the API.
  - Additional details and recommendations for implementers of API providers and clients.
  - Information about compatibility between different API versions.

IS-11 is intended to be used in conjunction with an [IS-04 NMOS Discovery & Registration](https://specs.amwa.tv/is-04) and [IS-05 NMOS Device Connection Management](https://specs.amwa.tv/is-05) deployment; however it has been written in such a way to provide useful functionality even in the absence of such a system.

## Use of Normative Language

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY",
and "OPTIONAL" in this documentation set are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119][RFC-2119].

## Definitions

The terms 'Node', 'Device', 'Sender' and 'Receiver' are used extensively in this documenation set. The [NMOS Technical Overview](https://specs.amwa.tv/nmos/main/docs/2.0._Technical_Overview.html) provides an outline of these terms, and IS-04 provides corresponding schema definitions.

### Sink

A media consuming unit associated with an IS-04 Receiver. Sink is a resource and based on [Resource Core JSON Schema][Resource-Core-Schema].

### Media Profile

Description of a format that is acceptable for all Receivers implied to be a part of a connection. A Media Profile consist of separate media parameters required to set a Sender, Flow, and/or Source. Media profiles follow the same EDID mapping as [BCP-005-1 EDID to Receiver Capabilities][BCP-005-1].

[RFC-2119]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119 "Key words for use in RFCs"
[BCP-005-1]: https://specs.amwa.tv/bcp-005-01 "AMWA BCP-005-01 NMOS EDID to Receiver Capabilities Mapping"
[Resource-Core-Schema]: https://github.com/AMWA-TV/nmos-discovery-registration/blob/v1.3.x/APIs/schemas/resource_core.json "AMWA NMOS IS-04 v1.3.x Resource Core JSON schema"
