# API

The Sink Metadata Processing API provides a mechanism to change the settings associated with logical Sources, Flows and Senders. Another use case is obtaining information about Sinks associated with Receivers.

## Senders

The `/media-profiles` endpoint allows the client to pass an array of [Media Profiles](1.0.%20Overview.md#media-profile) to a Sender and let the underlying implementation to choose exactly which format from the set it will use. A client can pass a single Media Profile to specify the exact format.

### Role of Media Profiles

The initial state of Media Profiles of a Sender MUST be an empty JSON array `[]`. This state indicated a Sender is unbound by a Media Profile. Creating a connection with such a Sender via [IS-05][IS-05] is not impacted by the Sink Metadata Processing API.

Once a Media Profile set is accepted, a Sender MUST have a Flow and Source which meets at least one profile. This constraint MUST be adhered to when an external change (i.e. not from the `/media-profiles` endpoint) modifies any aspect of the stream. If the change does not satisfy its Media Profiles, the Sender MUST NOT transmit the signal over the network. The Sender is REQUIRED to take the following actions:

- MUST set the [IS-05][IS-05] `/active`'s `master_enable` property to `false`.
- MUST update the [IS-04][IS-04] `subscription`'s `active` property to `false` (regardless of unicast or multicast).
- MUST respond with `205 Reset Content` when answering `GET /media-profiles` to indicate it is no longer following or adhering to a set. This response SHOULD persist until the next valid `PUT /media-profiles` request.

When a Sender is in this state, ie. responding with a `205 Reset Content`, this indicates a Sender is unbound by a Media Profile and is similar to the initial state.

### Request Methods

- A `GET` request returns the last successfully applied Media Profiles array.
- A `PUT` request MUST be validated and if the Device supports the proposed media profile, it initiates an attempt to reconfigure the Device and update corresponding Flow, Source, and/or Sender properties. If successful, the operation MUST return the accepted Media Profiles array, otherwise an error MUST be returned and nothing changed.
- A `DELETE` request MUST clear the last successfully applied Media Profiles array. It turns Media Profiles to the initial state which exclude Sink Metadata Processing out of the process. It is RECOMMENDED to be performed by a client after disconnecting all Receivers from an according Sender.

When the `/media-profiles` structure changes as a consequence of PUT or DELETE (request is validated and accepted by the API server), then the associated [IS-04][IS-04] Sender MUST have its version updated (in registered mode this MUST update the registered resource).

### Integration with IS-04

If the new `/media-profiles` structure causes the Sender or underlying [IS-04][IS-04] Flow and Source to change, then their version MUST be updated (in registered mode this MUST update the registered resources).

## Receivers

The `/sinks` endpoint returns a list of IDs corresponding to Sinks associated to the specific Receiver. If the list of associated sinks changes then the underlying [IS-04][IS-04] Receiver MUST update its version (in registered mode this MUST update the registered resource).

## Sinks

The `/edid` endpoint allows a client to download the binary EDID if it exists. If the EDID information for the Sink changes and it is associated with any Receivers, then all of the Receivers in question MUST update their version (in registered mode this MUST update the registered resources).

[IS-04]: https://specs.amwa.tv/is-04/
[IS-05]: https://specs.amwa.tv/is-05/
