# Behaviour: Client Side

## PUTting Media Profiles

Before making an IS-05 connection, NMOS Controller chooses Receivers intended to be a part of this connection. If they are IS-11 compatible Receivers, NMOS Controller MUST gather their Receiver Capabilities and make such intersection of them that they can be utilized for building Media Profiles satisfying all the Receivers. After that NMOS Controller MUST PUT /media-profiles and make the IS-05 connection if succeed. After breaking this connection via IS-05, NMOS Controller is RECOMMENDED to DELETE /media-profiles.

If multiple Receivers have an equal Constraint Set, NMOS Controller MUST take only one of them. If they differ only in `urn:x-nmos:cap:meta:preference`, then one with the highest priority MUST be taken.

## Tracking format changes on Sender

### Changes which break Media Profiles

NMOS Controller MUST track Sender's `subscription`'s `active` property during the IS-05 connection. If it became `false` unexpectedly, NMOS Controller SHOULD GET `/media-profiles` to figure out the reason of breaking the connection. If the request returns `205 Reset Content`, NMOS Controller SHOULD either disconnect all the Receivers or PUT `/media-profiles` once again and re-enable Sender via IS-05.

### Changes which do not break Media Profiles

Sender's changes which follow the Media Profiles put do not effect the `active` property so NMOS Controller MUST track Source's, Flow's and Sender's versions. If any of them has changed, NMOS Controller SHOULD PATCH /staged of all the Receivers with new transportfile if it's used for the IS-05 connection.
